end-to-end tutorial for finetuning an LLM with the UI (#9)
argilla-io/argilla-cookbook: ui-finetune/README.md

First we will create a dataset in Argilla based on an existing dataset. We will take a general approach to this, but in a real-world scenario you would want to create a dataset based on your specific use case. For example, you could filter the dataset to only include certain categories or topics.

### Start from an opensource dataset

We will work with Maxime Labonne's dataset of 40k samples with chosen and rejected completions. The dataset is available in the hub at `mlabonne/orpo-dpo-mix-40k`. Below is a preview of the dataset.

![images/mlabonne-orpo-mix.png](../images/mlabonne-orpo-mix.png)

### Importing the dataset into Argilla

To import the dataset into Argilla, we will use the 'Create Dataset' feature in the UI. For a more detailed guide on how to create a dataset in Argilla, check out this [blog post](https://huggingface.co/blog/argilla-ui-hub).

The video below shows how to import the dataset into Argilla by pasting the dataset's repo id into the 'Create Dataset' form. In our case, the repo id is `mlabonne/orpo-dpo-mix-40k`.

![video](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/argilla-ui-hub/import_hub_dataset.mp4)

> The dataset configurator lets you define a feedback task in the UI based on the dataset that you're importing. In our case, we will use the default task, and add a question for relevance. This will allow us to filter the dataset based on categories or topics.

Reviewer: For not argilla users, maybe talking about feedback tasks is not so obvious.

> ![alt text](../images/ui-finetune/argilla_config.png) 

Reviewer: This image looks to me a bit misleading due to the label in comparison to what you want to achieve/configure.

### Filter the dataset

After importing the dataset, we can filter it based on the relevance question we added. In our case, we will filter the dataset to only include completions that are relevant to the prompt. We will also filter the dataset to only include completions that are at least 10 tokens long.

![filter dataset](../images/ui-finetune/filter_records.png)

## Export the dataset to the Hub

> After filtering the dataset, we can export it to the hub. This will allow us to access the dataset in AutoTrain. Unfortunately, the export feature is not yet available in the UI, so we will have to use the python library to export the dataset.

Reviewer 2: given the complexity of the code (it is simple), i would just add it to the main file directly, especially since the blog tailors to people that would want to use easy UI and simple code to fine-tune, and not rely on external script calls.

```bash
huggingface_hub login
python create_dataset.py \
            --dataset_path argilla_dataset_name \
            --dataset_repo_id your_hf_repo_id
```

## Fine-tune

> With a dataset on the hub, we can now fine-tune a language model using `autotrain-advanced`. We will use the `llm` command to fine-tune a language model on the dataset. 

Reviewer 2: you don't actually show/use  the `llm` command, right?

### Install the required libraries

Before we can fine-tune the model, we need to install the required libraries. We will install `autotrain-advanced`, `datasets`, and `transformers`. We will also install the compatible versions of `torch`, `torchvision`, and `torchaudio`.

```python
# Uninstall existing torch, torchvision, and torchaudio
pip uninstall torch torchvision torchaudio -y

# Install compatible versions

> pip install torch==2.0.1+cu118 torchvision==0.15.2+cu118 torchaudio==2.0.2 --extra-index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu118

Reviewer 2: why do we need these and why do we need the cuda versions if we are going to use autotrain?

Reviewer 2: Is this not included default by the UI/deployment?

# Install other required libraries

> pip install -U autotrain-advanced

Reviewer 2: you don't seem to use the SDK anymore?

pip install -U datasets transformers
```

> ### Select the algorithm

Reviewer 2: doesn't autotrain just automatically use `DPO` at least you can't seem to configure this in the UI.

Reviewer: You can select it

![Screenshot 2024-11-18 at 15 28 49](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d23fbc76-5c4c-4b2d-90e0-2985e96a5e82)

Reviewer 2: perhaps that photo is better to show?

Author: No. There's an ORPO option. See the image below. I added a sentence to make this clearer.

> There are countless fine-tuning algorithms for LLMs to chose from and many of the are supported by AutoTrain. We will work with the ORPO algorithm because it's simple to use and deliver significant improvements on base models. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are countless fine-tuning algorithms for LLMs to choose from, and many of them are supported by AutoTrain. We will work with the ORPO algorithm because it's simple to use and delivers significant improvements on base models. 
```

ORPO (Online Reward Policy Optimization) is a streamlined fine-tuning technique that merges two stages—supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and preference alignment—into one. This integration reduces both the computational load and training time. Traditionally, fine-tuning large language models (LLMs) for specific tasks involves SFT to adapt the model’s domain knowledge and then preference alignment (such as RLHF or Direct Preference Optimization) to prioritize preferred responses over undesirable ones. ORPO addresses an issue in the traditional method where SFT inadvertently increases the probability of both desirable and undesirable outputs, necessitating an additional alignment phase.

Developed by Hong and Lee in 2024, ORPO combines these processes by modifying the model’s objective function to include a loss term that rewards preferred responses while penalizing rejected ones. This approach has shown to outperform other alignment methods across different model sizes and tasks. ORPO’s efficiency and improved alignment make it a promising alternative in fine-tuning LLMs like Llama 3.

### Select the base model

> The Hugging Face Hub contains thousands of language models that we could use as a base model for fine-tuning. We will use the SmolLM2 model as a base because it's only 1.7 billion parameters which means it will run on a wide range of hardware. It's also performed well on general benchmarks so we can expect reasonable performance from it on a number of use cases.

Reviewer 2: perhaps we can reference the llm leaderboard here?

| warmup-ratio           | 0.1                 | Ratio for learning rate warmup               |
| lora-r                 | 16                  | LoRA rank                                    |
| lora-alpha             | 32                  | LoRA alpha                                   |
| lora-dropout           | 0.05                | LoRA dropout rate                            |
| weight-decay           | 0.01                | Weight decay for regularization              |
| gradient-accumulation  | 4                   | Gradient accumulation steps                  |
| mixed-precision        | bf16                | Mixed precision format (e.g., bf16, fp16)    |
| max-prompt-length      | 256                 | Maximum length for prompts                   |
| max-completion-length  | 256                 | Maximum length for completions               |
| logging-steps          | 10                  | Steps interval for logging                   |
| save-total-limit       | 2                   | Limit for total number of saved checkpoints  |
| seed                   | 42                  | Random seed for reproducibility              |

> ![alt text](../images/ui-finetune/autotrain_params.png)

Reviewer 2: it seems you are still using the original dataset and not the improved/exported one?

- If you have limited hardware consider reducing the batch_size and block_size.
- If you have more VRAM than 40GB, you should increase your batch size.
- Once you've evaluated your model's checkpoints, you might wish to tweak epochs, weight-decay, and LoRa parameters.

## Evaluate the model

You can now evaluate your trained model. Here we will use some general benchmarks which can help to determine whether our model's performance has changed compared to its previous training. 

For a real-world use case, you would want to to evaluate your model on the task that you plan to use it for. In this guide on [custom evaluation](domain-eval/README.md) we show how to do that. 

```sh

> lighteval accelerate \

Reviewer 2: perhaps we can either add code that runs and do the correct installs or only redirect the user to the other blog?
